DISTRIBUCIONES DE PROBABILIDAD
==============================

DISTRIBUCIONES DE PROBABILIDAD DE VARIABLES DISCRETAS
------------------------------------------------------

**EXAMPLE 4.2.1**

In an article appearing in the Journal of the American Dietetic Association, Holben et al.
(A-1) looked at food security status in families in the Appalachian region of southern Ohio.
The purpose of the study was to examine hunger rates of families with children in a local
Head Start program in Athens, Ohio. The survey instrument included the 18-question U.S.
Household Food Security Survey Module for measuring hunger and food security. In addi-
tion, participants were asked how many food assistance programs they had used in the last
12 months. Table 4.2.1 shows the number of food assistance programs used by subjects in
this sample.

We wish to construct the probability distribution of the discrete variable X, where
X = number of food assistance programs used by the study subjects

**EXAMPLE 4.2.2**

What is the probability that a randomly selected family used three assistance
programs?

**EXAMPLE 4.2.3**

What is the probability that a randomly selected family used either one or two programs?

Cumulative Distributions
------------------------

**EXAMPLE 4.2.4**

What is the probability that a family picked at random used two or fewer assistance
programs?

**EXAMPLE 4.2.5**

What is the probability that a randomly selected family used fewer than four programs?

**EXAMPLE 4.2.6**

What is the probability that a randomly selected family used five or more programs?

**EXAMPLE 4.2.7**

What is the probability that a randomly selected family used between three and five
programs, inclusive?

THE BINOMIAL DISTRIBUTION
-------------------------

The Bernoulli Process

A sequence of Bernoulli trials forms a Bernoulli
process under the following conditions.

1. Each trial results in one of two possible, mutually exclusive, outcomes. One of the pos-
sible outcomes is denoted (arbitrarily) as a success, and the other is denoted a failure.

2. The probability of a success, denoted by p, remains constant from trial to trial. The
probability of a failure, 1 - p, is denoted by q.

3. The trials are independent; that is, the outcome of any particular trial is not affected
by the outcome of any other trial.

**EXAMPLE 4.3.1**

We are interested in being able to compute the probability of x successes in n Bernoulli
trials. For example, if we examine all birth records from the North Carolina State Center
for Health Statistics (A-3) for the calendar year 2001, we find that 85.8 percent of the
pregnancies had delivery in week 37 or later. We will refer to this as a full-term birth.
With that percentage, we can interpret the probability of a recorded birth in week 37 or
later as .858. If we randomly select five birth records from this population, what is the
probability that exactly three of the records will be for full-term births?

**EXAMPLE 4.3.2**

As another example of the use of the binomial distribution, the data from the North
Carolina State Center for Health Statistics (A-3) show that 14 percent of mothers admit-
ted to smoking one or more cigarettes per day during pregnancy. If a random sample
of size 10 is selected from this population, what is the probability that it will contain
exactly four mothers who admitted to smoking during pregnancy?

**EXAMPLE 4.3.3**

Suppose it is known that 10 percent of a certain population is color blind. If a random
sample of 25 people is drawn from this population, use Table B in the Appendix to find
the probability that:

(a) Five or fewer will be color blind.

(b) Six or more will be color blind.

(c) Between six and nine inclusive will be color blind.

(d) Two, three, or four will be color blind

**EXAMPLE 4.3.4**

According to a June 2003 poll conducted by the Massachusetts Health Benchmarks
project (A-4), approximately 55 percent of residents answered “serious problem” to the
question, “Some people think that childhood obesity is a national health problem. What
do you think? Is it a very serious problem, somewhat of a problem, not much of a prob-
lem, or not a problem at all?” Assuming that the probability of giving this answer to the
question is .55 for any Massachusetts resident, use Table B to find the probability that if
12 residents are chosen at random:

(a) Exactly seven will answer “serious problem.”

(b) Five or fewer households will answer “serious problem.”

(c) Eight or more households will answer “serious problem.”

**THE POISSON DISTRIBUTION**

The Poisson Process We have seen that the binomial distribution results from
a set of assumptions about an underlying process yielding a set of numerical observa-
tions. Such, also, is the case with the Poisson distribution. The following statements
describe what is known as the Poisson process.

1. The occurrences of the events are independent. The occurrence of an event in an
interval1 of space or time has no effect on the probability of a second occurrence
of the event in the same, or any other, interval.

2. Theoretically, an infinite number of occurrences of the event must be possible in
the interval.

3. The probability of the single occurrence of the event in a given interval is propor-
tional to the length of the interval.

4. In any infinitesimally small portion of the interval, the probability of more than
one occurrence of the event is negligible.

An interesting feature of the Poisson distribution is the fact that the mean and vari-
ance are equal.

**EXAMPLE 4.4.1**

In a study of drug-induced anaphylaxis among patients taking rocuronium bromide as
part of their anesthesia, Laake and Røttingen (A-7) found that the occurrence of anaphy-
laxis followed a Poisson model with l = 12 incidents per year in Norway. Find the prob-
ability that in the next year, among patients receiving rocuronium, exactly three will
experience anaphylaxis.

**EXAMPLE 4.4.2**

Refer to Example 4.4.1. What is the probability that at least three patients in the next
year will experience anaphylaxis if rocuronium is administered with anesthesia?

**EXAMPLE 4.4.3**

In the study of a certain aquatic organism, a large number of samples were taken from a
pond, and the number of organisms in each sample was counted. The average number
of organisms per sample was found to be two. Assuming that the number of organisms
follows a Poisson distribution, find the probability that the next sample taken will contain
one or fewer organisms.

**EXAMPLE 4.4.4**

Refer to Example 4.4.3. Find the probability that the next sample taken will contain
exactly three organisms.

**EXAMPLE 4.4.5**

Refer to Example 4.4.3. Find the probability that the next sample taken will contain more
than five organisms.

CONTINUOUS PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTIONS
------------------------------------

THE NORMAL DISTRIBUTION
-----------------------

The Standard Normal Distribution
--------------------------------

The last-mentioned characteristic of
the normal distribution implies that the normal distribution is really a family of distribu-
tions in which one member is distinguished from another on the basis of the values of
m and s. The most important member of this family is the standard normal distribution
or unit normal distribution, as it is sometimes called, because it has a mean of 0 and a
standard deviation of 1. It may be obtained from Equation 4.6.1 by creating a random
variable.

.. math::

   z = \frac{x - \mu}{\sigma}

**EXAMPLE 4.6.1**

Given the standard normal distribution, find the area under the curve, above the z-axis
between :math:`z = -\infty` and z = 2.

**EXAMPLE 4.6.2**

What is the probability that a z picked at random from the population of z’s will have a
value between -2.55 and +2.55?

**EXAMPLE 4.6.3**

What proportion of z values are between -2.74 and 1.53?

**EXAMPLE 4.6.4**

Given the standard normal distribution, find :math:`P(z \geq 2.71)`.

**EXAMPLE 4.6.5**

Given the standard normal distribution, find :math:`P(.84 \geq z \geq 2.45).

NORMAL DISTRIBUTION APPLICATIONS
--------------------------------

**EXAMPLE 4.7.1**

The Uptimer is a custom-made lightweight battery-operated activity monitor that records
the amount of time an individual spends in the upright position. In a study of children
ages 8 to 15 years, Eldridge et al. (A-10) studied 529 normally developing children who
each wore the Uptimer continuously for a 24-hour period that included a typical school
day. The researchers found that the amount of time children spent in the upright position
followed a normal distribution with a mean of 5.4 hours and standard deviation of 1.3
hours. Assume that this finding applies to all children 8 to 15 years of age. Find the prob-
ability that a child selected at random spends less than 3 hours in the upright position in
a 24-hour period.

**EXAMPLE 4.7.2**

Diskin et al. (A-11) studied common breath metabolites such as ammonia, acetone, iso-
prene, ethanol, and acetaldehyde in five subjects over a period of 30 days. Each day,
breath samples were taken and analyzed in the early morning on arrival at the labora-
tory. For subject A, a 27-year-old female, the ammonia concentration in parts per billion
(ppb) followed a normal distribution over 30 days with mean 491 and standard devia-
tion 119. What is the probability that on a random day, the subject’s ammonia concen-
tration is between 292 and 649 ppb?

**EXAMPLE 4.7.3**

In a population of 10,000 of the children described in Example 4.7.1, how many would
you expect to be upright more than 8.5 hours?



