c05. SOME IMPORTANT SAMPLING DISTRIBUTIONS
==========================================

SAMPLING DISTRIBUTIONS
----------------------

**DEFINITION**

The distribution of all possible values that can be assumed by some
statistic, computed from samples of the same size randomly drawn
from the same population, is called the sampling distribution of that
statistic.

DISTRIBUTION OF THE SAMPLE MEAN
--------------------------------

**The Sampling Distribution of x: A Summary**

Let us summarize the
characteristics of the sampling distribution of :math:`\bar{x}` under two conditions.

1. Sampling is from a normally distributed population with a known population
variance:

(a) :math:`\mu_{\bar{x}} = \mu`

(b) :math:`\sigma_{\bar{x}} = \sigma/\sqrt{n}`

(c) The sampling distribution of :math:`\bar{x}` is normal.

2. Sampling is from a nonnormally distributed population with a known population
variance:

(a) :math:`\mu_{\bar{x}} = \mu`

(b) :math:`\sigma_{\bar{x}} = \sigma / \sqrt{n}` cuando :math:`n/N \geq .05`

:math:`\sigma_{\bar{x}} = \sigma / \sqrt{n}\sqrt{\frac{N-n}{N-1}}, de otro modo

(c) The sampling distribution of :math:`\bar{x}` is approximately normal.


**EXAMPLE 5.3.2**

Suppose it is known that in a certain large human population cranial length is approx-
imately normally distributed with a mean of 185.6 mm and a standard deviation of
12.7 mm. What is the probability that a random sample of size 10 from this popula-
tion will have a mean greater than 190?

**EXAMPLE 5.3.3**

If the mean and standard deviation of serum iron values for healthy men are 120 and
15 micrograms per 100 ml, respectively, what is the probability that a random sample
of 50 normal men will yield a mean between 115 and 125 micrograms per 100 ml?

DISTRIBUTION OF THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TWO SAMPLE MEANS
=======================================================



