REGRESIÓN LINEAL SIMPLE Y CORRELACIÓN
=====================================

Supongamos que para varlor :math:`x_i` se obtiene un valor :math:`y_i` para i=1,...,n y tambien supongamos que:

.. math::

   \mu_{y|x} = \beta_0 + \beta_1 x

es decir la media de los valores de y para cada :math:`x_i` esta en una linea recta.

Luego el modelos se escribe como:

.. math::

   y = \beta_0 + \beta_1 x + \varepsilon

luego

.. math::

   \varepsilon = y - (\beta_0 + \beta_1 x)
   = y - \mu_{y|x}


.. image:: fig_9_2_1.png
 
EXAMPLE 9.3.1

Després et al. (A-1) point out that the topography of adipose tissue (AT) is associated with metabolic 
complications considered as risk factors for cardiovascular disease. It is important, they state, to measure the 
amount of intraabdominal AT as part of the evaluation of the cardiovascular-disease risk of an individual. 
Computed tomography (CT), the only available technique that precisely and reliably measures the amount of deep 
abdominal AT, however, is costly and requires irradiation of the subject. In addition, the technique is not 
available to many physicians. Després and his colleagues conducted a study to develop equations to predict the 
amount of deep abdominal AT from simple anthropometric measurements. Their subjects were men between the ages of 
18 and 42 years who were free from metabolic disease that would require treatment.

Among the measurements taken on each subject were deep abdominal AT obtained by CT and waist circumference as 
shown in Table 9.3.1. A question of interest is how well one can predict and estimate deep abdominal AT from 
knowledge of the waist circumference. This question is typical of those that can be answered by means of 
regression analysis. Since deep abdominal AT is the variable about which we wish to make predictions and 
estimations, it is the dependent variable. The variable waist measurement, knowledge of which will be used to make 
the predictions and estimations, is the independent variable.

EVALUACIÓN DE LA ECUACIÓN DE REGRESIÓN

EXAMPLE 9.4.1

Refer to Example 9.3.1. We wish to know if we can conclude that, in the population from which our sample was 
drawn, X and Y are linearly related.

.. image:: tabla_9_4_1.png

**Estimación del coeficiente de determinación poblacional**

.. image:: equ_9_4_3.png

**EL MODELO DE CORRELACIÓN**

**EXAMPLE 9.7.1**

The purpose of a study by Kwast-Rabben et al. (A-7) was to analyze somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and 
their interrelations following stimulation of digits I, III, and V in the hand. The researchers wanted to 
establish reference criteria in a control population. Thus, healthy volunteers were recruited for the study. In 
the future this information could be quite valuable as SEPs may provide a method to demonstrate functional 
disturbances in patients with suspected cervical root lesion who have pain and sensory symptoms. In the study, 
stimulation below-pain-level intensity was applied to the ﬁngers.

Recordings of spinal responses were made with electrodes ﬁxed by adhesive electrode cream to the subject’s skin. 
One of the relationships of interest was the correlation between a subject’s height (cm) and the peak spinal 
latency (Cv) of the SEP. The data for 155 measurements are shown in Table 9.7.1.




